Patricia Campos-Medina Endorses Mikie Sherrill for Governor

Date: 2025-01-16T05:00:00.000Z

Campos-Medina — a Prominent Progressive Leader — Will Serve as a Senior Advisor and Official Surrogate for the Campaign 

BLOOMFIELD — Today, Dr. Patricia Campos-Medina — a prominent labor leader and community organizer — announced she is supporting Mikie Sherrill in the race for New Jersey Governor. Dr. Campos Medina will also serve as a senior advisor and official surrogate for Mikie’s campaign.

“Now is the time for a different type of leadership in New Jersey and that’s why I’m endorsing Mikie Sherrill’s campaign for governor,” said Dr. Patricia Campos-Medina. “Mikie understands to her core what public service is about. We need a leader in Trenton who’s in this not for themselves, but for working families struggling in a changing economy: To increase wages and benefits for workers, to protect our rights and freedoms, and to provide opportunities for communities whose voices are often ignored. We need a fearless Democratic governor to stand up to Trump’s threats on New Jersey — and I am excited to hit the campaign trail for Mikie and help build a winning coalition for the Democratic Primary.”

“I’m absolutely thrilled to have Patricia’s support in this race. Throughout the course of her career, she has demonstrated bold leadership — from the labor movement advocating for better wages to expanding democracy here in New Jersey,” said Mikie Sherrill. “From the moment I launched this campaign, I’ve said it’s one we’re going to build together and I’m grateful to have Patricia’s counsel and voice on the campaign trail.”

Campos-Medina ran for U.S. Senate, coming in second place in the June 2024 Democratic primary. She has been an outspoken advocate to expand democracy and ballot access in New Jersey. She has a long trajectory of supporting women to run for office and leads efforts to train Latina women to expand their ranks in NJ government and politics. Campos-Medina is a labor educator and political scientist — leading research, policy innovation, and training to advance worker justice, collective bargaining rights, and the interest of American workers. She is a Visiting Fellow at the Eagleton Institute of Politics, Rutgers University-New Brunswick, and a board member of several progressive organizations including the Network Action Fund, supporting innovation in union organizing for workers in the gig, care, and low-wage economy. Prior to joining academia, she held top leadership roles in national and local labor unions such as SEIU, UNITE HERE, Workers United (formerly UNITE), and LCLAA AFL-CIO. She is a proud daughter, wife and mother who understands the challenges facing working families in New Jersey.

###