OCT
1
2025
PRESS RELEASE
BREAKING: Trump Administration Threatens Gateway, Mikie Sherrill Will Go to Bat for New Jersey
Choose your fighter: "Tunnel Obsessed Congresswoman" versus "100% MAGA" Jack

BLOOMFIELD — Today, senior Trump administration official Russ Vought announced that federal funding for the Gateway Project is being frozen. Gateway is the nation's largest and most important infrastructure project, which will replace the 100-year-old railway tunnels between New Jersey and New York to reduce traffic and delays. The project is generating tens of thousands of good-paying union jobs and will bring billions of dollars back to the Northeast region to reduce traffic and pollution, and improve public transportation services.

"I first ran on a promise to build the Gateway Tunnel, and I delivered. We proudly secured a full funding agreement. Shovels are in the ground. The first part of the project is set to be completed in 2026. During construction alone, Gateway will create 95,000 jobs and generate $42.8 billion in economic activity in our region.

"Yet, once again, the Trump administration is targeting New Jersey by gutting this funding. As governor, I will fight tooth and nail to complete this essential infrastructure project for New Jersey. Jack Ciattarelli will not. He's refused to name a single area where he disagrees with Trump and has already said he would never sue the Trump administration. He will choose Trump over New Jersey every time. Make no mistake: When I'm governor, I will see them in court and deliver Gateway for New Jersey," said Mikie Sherrill.

If New Jerseyans want to know who will be the governor who fixes New Jersey's transit systems, take a look at Mikie and Jack's records.

Mikie was called the "Tunnel Obsessed Congresswoman" by a member of the press back in 2019 because of her relentless focus on building the Gateway Project. In the years since, she's secured $12 billion, including a Full Funding Grant Agreement, to build the Gateway Tunnel. She's also brought back over $4 billion to maintain service routes, upgrade the bus fleet, and fix NJ TRANSIT stations throughout the Garden State.

Meanwhile, Jack got on the debate stage last week and said that his plan for fixing transit is to cut services. He's already promised he won't sue Trump on anything. And let's not forget, he supported Governor Chris Christie's decision to defund the ARC Tunnel.

The choice is clear: Mikie's going to fight with everything she's got to fix our state's transportation systems and protect Gateway's funding for New Jersey families, just as she always has. Jack won't stand up to Trump, and New Jerseyans are going to pay the price.

###
