ICYMI: Mikie Sherrill To Declare A State of Emergency on Utility Costs on Day One

Date: 2025-08-21T21:11:30.350Z

ICYMI: Mikie Sherrill To Declare A State of Emergency on Utility Costs on Day One

BLOOMFIELD — Yesterday, Mikie announced her plan to enact a State of Emergency on Utility Costs. She’ll freeze the rate hikes, so that the average New Jersey family sees no increase in their utility rates over the next year. She’ll massively build out cheaper and cleaner power generation by cutting red tape and permitting delays, allowing the state to immediately break ground on new solar and battery storage projects, expedite capacity upgrades at our nuclear plants, and modernize our existing natural gas facilities to make them cleaner and more efficient. Mikie will also require more transparency and accountability from our utility companies, including PSE&G, JCP&L, Atlantic City Electric, Rockland Electric, and our grid operator PJM. While Mikie is focusing on taking on powerful utility companies and fighting for New Jerseyans, Jack has called PJM — the largest grid operator in the nation — an “obscure nonprofit” and has said that holding them accountable for jacking up costs is “BS.” 

Mikie’s plan was met with wide coverage from across the state. Here’s what they are saying: 

In the News: 

New Jersey 101.5: Sherrill vows ’emergency’ action on electric bills on Day 1 as governor of NJ

Democratic candidate for governor Mikie Sherrill has vowed to declare a "state of emergency" over New Jersey’s spike in power bills and freeze utility rates on “day one” in office.

“More power generation means lower bills,” Sherrill said, adding "This means immediately breaking ground on new solar and battery storage projects, expediting capacity upgrades at our existing nuclear plants, and streamlining the modernization of existing natural gas facilities to make them cleaner and more efficient."

Sherrill said she would instruct her state attorney general to take on massive power grid operator, PJM, while adding that Ciattarelli has said holding the company accountable is a bunch of “B.S.”

Sherrill was also joined by Park Ridge Mayor Keith Misciagna, of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 164, who said “her opponent seems to have no plan whatsoever,” Misciagna said at the podium before Sherrill spoke.

NJ.com: Mikie Sherrill vows to freeze N.J. energy prices amid alarming rate hikes

New Jersey Democratic gubernatorial nominee Mikie Sherrill vowed Wednesday to freeze rapidly rising electricity bills if elected, campaigning on an issue that has caught fire in the hotly contested race for the state’s top political job.

Sherrill said she would declare a state of emergency on her first day in office and order a statewide freeze on energy prices while repeating her policy stances to invest in solar and nuclear energy production, creating what she termed an “energy arsenal.” She also supported efforts to modernize natural gas production and investments into battery energy storage.

The New Jersey League of Conservation Voters on Wednesday lauded Sherrill’s plans. “Mikie’s plan to cap energy prices in the short term and speed approval of new solar energy projects, the cheapest energy in America, while safeguarding our open space and environmental protections, will create union jobs while providing cheap, clean energy that we need to lower costs for the long term,” the organization’s executive director, Ed Potosnak, said in a statement.

InsiderNJ: Sherrill Puts the BPU on Notice as She Vows Day One State of Emergency on Utility Costs

Mikie Sherrill, Democratic nominee for Governor, said if elected she would enact a Day One State of Emergency on Utility Costs, promising to freeze rate hikes, build out cheaper and cleaner power generation, and require more transparency from utility companies, including PSE&G, JCP&L, Atlantic City Electric, and Rockland Electric, and our grid operator, PJM.

“New Jersey families are being crushed by their utility bills and we’ve reached a crisis point," Sherrill said. "But in the Navy, you learn that in times of crisis, you have to lead, follow, or get out of the way. I’m running to lead, and I am going to be the governor who lowers your utility bills. So on Day One, I’m going to declare a State of Emergency on Utility Costs to freeze these rate hikes and build out New Jersey’s energy arsenal, which will immediately lower costs. And I’m not afraid to take on anyone – whether it’s the utility companies, our grid operator, or my own party — to get it done. Meanwhile, Jack Ciattarelli is going to sit back and let Donald Trump drive up energy costs while making New Jerseyans foot the bill."

Sherrill made the announcement alongside Herb Michitsch, a Kenilworth senior, and Keith Misciagna from IBEW Local 164, who shared how the 20% utility rate increases are already stretching their budgets thin.

NJBIZ: Sherrill unveils energy plan to cut NJ utility costs

At the center of Sherrill’s plan is a day one declaration of a state of emergency on utility costs.

When asked if the governor had the authority to freeze utility rates, Sherrill said her team has determined that, as governor, she would have the power to – pointing to a stakeholder process with utility companies and PJM to analyze prices/costs, as well as highlighting money that comes into NJBPU that could be used toward this.

New Jersey Globe: Sherrill says she’ll freeze utility bills in first year as governor

The aggressive proposals come as Democratic state officials seek to address the 20% increase in electric rates that arrived this June and another, smaller bump expected next June. The rising prices are a potent political issue heading into November, with the governorship and Assembly at stake: Democrats largely blame the region’s energy grid operator, while Republicans blame Democratic clean-energy efforts.

Sherrill announced her plans at a press conference outside the Kenilworth home of Herb and Mary Michitsch, who have been married for 57 years and lived in the house for 53 years. Herb said they used to pay less than $100 per month in utility bills, but the prices are now “creeping up” to $400 per month.

Under the state of emergency, the Democrat said she’d immediately break ground on solar and battery storage projects, as well as expand capacity at existing nuclear plants and modernize existing natural gas plants. Sherrill said she’ll “open up the books” of the state’s utility companies, including PSE&G and JCP&L.

On Social Media: 

League of Conservation Voters, New Jersey: Through her bold new plan to reign in energy costs, @mikiesherrill is showing once again that she’s willing to take on Donald Trump and his corrupt oil and gas CEO friends. While Jack Ciattarelli’s policies would enrich corrupt fossil fuel companies and cause prices to skyrocket, Mikie is working to protect New Jersey families from Donald Trump's extreme fossil fuels agenda.

New Jersey Sierra Club: Mikie Sherrill will tackle several problems on her first day in office- affordability, holding PJM accountable, and investing in clean energy. This is what true leadership looks like. We need to ensure that we elect Mikie Sherill as NJ’s Governor, a leader who is not afraid to hold powerful interests accountable for their impacts on NJ’s families.

Evergreen Action: New Jersey residents are feeling the impact of rising utility costs, and Mikie Sherrill's plan goes right at the source of that increase: PJM Interconnection's mismanagement of the grid. For too long, consumers have paid the price for PJM’s decision to slowwalk connecting cheaper clean energy to the grid while its utility members make more money from expensive fossil fuel infrastructure. Mikie Sherrill's plan will hold PJM accountable, invest in affordable clean energy and prevent rate increases for New Jersey residents.

We need more leaders willing to confront the status quo head-on, not just manage around it. PJM must start putting working families first and fast-track connecting cheap clean energy to the grid, instead of padding utility profits with expensive new gas plants. PJM’s utility-members’ greed and PJM’s mismanagement are blocking hundreds of low-cost clean energy projects while sticking ratepayers with the bill. Enough is enough. It’s time to stop protecting utility interests and start holding PJM and utilities accountable to the people they’re supposed to serve.

###