Virginia Professional Fire Fighters Endorse Abigail Spanberger for Governor of Virginia, Hails Her Track Record of Delivering for First Responders

Robert L. Bragg III, VPFF President: "Abigail Was One of, if Not the Leading, Champion for Fire Fighters During Her Time in the United States Congress"

Spanberger: "I'm Proud to Earn VPFF's Endorsement to Serve as the Next Governor of Virginia and to Support the Emergency Personnel Who Day in and Day out Put the Commonwealth Ahead of Themselves"

RICHMOND, Va. — Jul 01, 2025

Virginia Professional Fire Fighters (VPFF) — which represents more than 10,000 fire fighters, paramedics, and other emergency response workers across Virginia — today endorsed Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger to serve as the next Governor of Virginia.

In endorsing Spanberger, VPFF praised her leadership in passing the bipartisan Social Security Fairness Act, a seminal victory for fire fighters that took decades to accomplish, and her long record of ensuring Virginia's fire fighters have the resources they need to keep the Commonwealth's communities safe.

"We are pleased to endorse Abigail Spanberger given her service as a federal law enforcement officer and record of support for fire fighters and their families," said Robert L. Bragg III, President, VPFF. "Simply put, Abigail was one of, if not the leading, champion for fire fighters during her time in the United States Congress. We value candidates who are willing to work with their colleagues to ensure our fire fighters and their families receive the benefits and protections they have valiantly earned and this endorsement comes as a result of Abigail's commitment to ensuring our fire fighters have the tools and resources necessary to protect and serve the citizens of the Commonwealth."

"At an early age, I was inspired by public service and taught that there is no greater calling than to serve your country and your community. I'm thankful for the service of Virginia's emergency responders to our Commonwealth and VPFF's work to advocate for them and keep them safe as they do their jobs," said Spanberger.
